# Formalization of circuits made of components and connections using Computer vision techniques to create a semi-automatic recognition system

In this study, the developer tackled one of the most challenging part of designing the routine of electronic engineers. This solution not only helps them to save a huge amount of time allocated for the implementation of circuits on applications but also prevents unwanted errors made by humans. A challenging part of this work is associated with gathering data for the training step which demands to use Generative-AI like [GANs](https://github.com/parham075/circuits-component-detection-yolo/blob/main/codes/image_generator/GAN.ipynb) plus other techniques like geometrical transformations. In the training phase, two architectures are used, YOLO v3& YOLO v4 which are based on darknet architecture. The obtained outcome from the evaluation section shows YOLO v4 performs considerably better than YOLO v3. Therefore, it was used in the remaining steps of this work. Furthermore, the evaluation results demonstrate how our solution could classify and detect an object within images. Subsequently, the application part played a key role in achieving our expectations for component detection on real-world data. In future development, we can add more data for each class and use the YOLO algorithm with an attention mechanism to increase the efficiency of output model which performed weak outcomes in some classes of the understudy dataset. Furthermore, we can increase the number of classes in order to scale up the number of elements detected by the system. Finally, this work was accomplished to develop a semi-automatic system for the digitalization of hand-written circuits.
